Task 1: Deploy

Task 2: Introduction

What networking constructs are used to direct traffic to the right application on a server?
ANS: Ports

EXPLANATION: The first stage in establishing this “map” of the landscape is something called port scanning. When a computer runs a network service, it opens a networking construct called a “port” to receive the connection

2. How many of these are available on any network-enabled computer?

ANS: 65535

EXPLANATION: Every computer has a total of 65535 available ports; however, many of these are registered as standard ports

3. [Research] How many of these are considered “well-known”? (These are the “standard” numbers mentioned in the task

ANS: 1024

EXPLANATION: Ports 0 through 1023 are defined as well-known ports.

Task 3: Nmap Switches

What is the first switch listed in the help menu for a ‘Syn Scan’ (more on this later!)?
ANS: -sS

EXPLANATION:


2. Which switch would you use for a “UDP scan”?

ANS: -sU

EXPLANATION:


3. If you wanted to detect which operating system the target is running on, which switch would you use?

ANS: -O

EXPLANATION:


4. Nmap provides a switch to detect the version of the services running on the target. What is this switch?

ANS: -sV

EXPLANATION:

Press enter or click to view image in full size

5. The default output provided by nmap often does not provide enough information for a pentester. How would you increase the verbosity?

ANS: -v

EXPLANATION:


6. Verbosity level one is good, but verbosity level two is better! How would you set the verbosity level to two?
(Note: it’s highly advisable to always use at least this option)

ANS: -vv

7. We should always save the output of our scans — this means that we only need to run the scan once (reducing network traffic and thus chance of detection), and gives us a reference to use when writing reports for clients.

What switch would you use to save the nmap results in three major formats?

ANS: -oA

EXPLANATION:


8. What switch would you use to save the nmap results in a “normal” format?

ANS: -oN

Press enter or click to view image in full size

9. A very useful output format: how would you save results in a “grepable” format?

ANS: -oG

EXPLANATION:


10. Sometimes the results we’re getting just aren’t enough. If we don’t care about how loud we are, we can enable “aggressive” mode. This is a shorthand switch that activates service detection, operating system detection, a traceroute and common script scanning.

How would you activate this setting?

ANS: -A

EXPLANATION:


11. Nmap offers five levels of “timing” template. These are essentially used to increase the speed your scan runs at. Be careful though: higher speeds are noisier, and can incur errors!

How would you set the timing template to level 5?

ANS: -T5

12. We can also choose which port(s) to scan.

How would you tell nmap to only scan port 80?

ANS: -p 80

13. How would you tell nmap to scan ports 1000–1500?

ANS: -p 1000–1500

14. A very useful option that should not be ignored:

How would you tell nmap to scan all ports?

ANS: -p-

15. How would you activate a script from the nmap scripting library (lots more on this later!)?

ANS: — script

EXPLANATION:


16. How would you activate all of the scripts in the “vuln” category?

ANS: — script=vuln

EXPLANATION:


Task 4: Scan Types Overview

Read the Scan Types Introduction.
ANS: No answer needed

Task 5: Scan Types TCP Connect Scans

Which RFC defines the appropriate behaviour for the TCP protocol?
ANS: RFC 793

EXPLANATION: For example, if a port is closed, RFC 793 states that:

“… If the connection does not exist (CLOSED) then a reset is sent in response to any incoming segment except another reset. In particular, SYNs addressed to a non-existent connection are rejected by this means.”

2. If a port is closed, which flag should the server send back to indicate this?

ANS: RST

EXPLANATION: if Nmap sends a TCP request with the SYN flag set to a closed port, the target server will respond with a TCP packet with the RST (Reset) flag set. By this response, Nmap can establish that the port is closed.

Task 6: Scan Types SYN Scans

There are two other names for a SYN scan, what are they?
ANS: Half-Open, Stealth

EXPLANATION: As with TCP scans, SYN scans (-sS) are used to scan the TCP port-range of a target or targets; however, the two scan types work slightly differently. SYN scans are sometimes referred to as "Half-open" scans, or "Stealth" scans.

2. Can Nmap use a SYN scan without Sudo permissions (Y/N)?

ANS: N

Become a Medium member
EXPLANATION: SYN scans are the default scans used by Nmap if run with sudo permissions. If run without sudo permissions, Nmap defaults to the TCP Connect scan.

Task 7: Scan Types UDP Scans

If a UDP port doesn’t respond to an Nmap scan, what will it be marked as?
ANS: open|filtered

EXPLANATION: When a packet is sent to an open UDP port, there should be no response. When this happens, Nmap refers to the port as being open|filtered

2. When a UDP port is closed, by convention the target should send back a “port unreachable” message. Which protocol would it use to do so?

ANS: ICMP

EXPLANATION: When a packet is sent to a closed UDP port, the target should respond with an ICMP (ping) packet containing a message that the port is unreachable. This clearly identifies closed ports, which Nmap marks as such and moves on.

Task 8: Scan Types NULL, FIN and Xmas

Which of the three shown scan types uses the URG flag?
ANS: xmas

EXPLANATION: Xmas scans (-sX) send a malformed TCP packet and expects a RST response for closed ports. It's referred to as an xmas scan as the flags that it sets (PSH, URG and FIN) give it the appearance of a blinking christmas tree when viewed as a packet capture in Wireshark

2. Why are NULL, FIN and Xmas scans generally used?

ANS: Firewall Evasion

EXPLANATION: The key advantage to these scan types is that they can sneak through certain non-stateful firewalls and packet filtering routers.

3. Which common OS may respond to a NULL, FIN or Xmas scan with a RST for every port?

ANS: Microsoft Windows

EXPLANATION: In particular Microsoft Windows (and a lot of Cisco network devices) are known to respond with a RST to any malformed TCP packet — regardless of whether the port is actually open or not. This results in all ports showing up as being closed.

Task 9: Scan Types ICMP Network Scanning

How would you perform a ping sweep on the 172.16.x.x network (Netmask: 255.255.0.0) using Nmap? (CIDR notation)
ANS: nmap -sn 172.16.0.0/16

EXPLANATION: Replace x with 0’s in the IP address and the given netmask is 255.255.0.0 . 255 is equivalent to 8 bits so we have 2 times 255 so which is 2 x 8 which is 16.

Task 10: NSE Scripts Overview

What language are NSE scripts written in
ANS: Lua

2. Which category of scripts would be a very bad idea to run in a production environment?

ANS: intrusive

EXPLANATION: intrusive:- Not safe: likely to affect the target

Task 11: NSE Scripts Working with the NSE

What optional argument can the ftp-anon.nse script take?
ANS: maxlist

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type nmap — script-help ftp-anon.nse on linux terminal

Step 2: you will see a result and search the link (https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/ftp-anon.html)on browser and check for script arguments and you will find ftp-anon.maxlist, maxlist is the argument.


Press enter or click to view image in full size

Task 12: NSE Scripts Searching for Scripts

Search for “smb” scripts in the /usr/share/nmap/scripts/ directory using either of the demonstrated methods.
What is the filename of the script which determines the underlying OS of the SMB server?
ANS: smb-os-discovery.nse

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type grep “smb” /usr/share/scripts/script.db on linux terminal and search for smb script related to os discovery.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Step 2: Alternatively, type ls -l /usr/share/nmap/scripts/*smb* on linux terminal and search for smb script related to os discovery.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

2. Read through this script. What does it depend on?

ANS: smb-brute

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type cd /usr/share/nmap/scripts/ ; nano smb-os-discovery.nse on linux terminal

Step 2: nano editor will open once the command execute and scroll down till you see dependencies and you will find dependencies ={“smb-brute”}


Press enter or click to view image in full size

Task 13: Firewall Evasion

Which simple (and frequently relied upon) protocol is often blocked, requiring the use of the -Pn switch
ANS: ICMP

EXPLANATION: Fortunately Nmap provides an option for this: -Pn, which tells Nmap to not bother pinging the host before scanning it. This means that Nmap will always treat the target host(s) as being alive, effectively bypassing the ICMP block

2. [Research] Which Nmap switch allows you to append an arbitrary length of random data to the end of packets?

ANS: — data-length

EXPLANATION: type man nmap on linux terminal and look at FIREWALL/IDS EVASION AND SPOOFING


Task 14: Practical

Does the target (MACHINE_IP)respond to ICMP (ping) requests (Y/N)?
ANS: N

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type sudo nmap -PE 10.10.119.181 on linux terminal ,if it`s not replying so answer is No / “N”


2. Perform an Xmas scan on the first 999 ports of the target — how many ports are shown to be open or filtered?

ANS: 999

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type sudo nmap -p1–999 -sX 10.10.52.218 -vv -Pn on linux terminal and wait for the response that nmap has send to server.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

3. There is a reason given for this — what is it?

Note: The answer will be in your scan results. Think carefully about which switches to use — and read the hint before asking for help!

ANS: No Response

EXPLANATION: (Hint): -vv will be use so it increase the verbosity

Press enter or click to view image in full size

4. Perform a TCP SYN scan on the first 5000 ports of the target — how many ports are shown to be open?

ANS: 5

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type sudo nmap -p1–5000 -sS 10.10.161.122 -Pn -vv on linux terminal and wait for the results and you will find how many ports are open.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

5. Open Wireshark (see Cryillic’s Wireshark Room for instructions) and perform a TCP Connect scan against port 80 on the target, monitoring the results. Make sure you understand what’s going on.

ANS: No answer needed

6. Deploy the ftp-anon script against the box. Can Nmap login successfully to the FTP server on port 21? (Y/N)

ANS: Y

EXPLANATION:

Step 1: type on nmap — script=ftp-anon -p 21 10.10.119.181 -vv linux terminal and wait for the results whether nmap login successfully to the FTP server on port 21.

Press enter or click to view image in full size
